# Project submission description

1. The file "run_analysis.R" contains an R script that loads data from seven text files, performs basic manipulation of those data, and returns a tidy data set containing summary information about the data. The data consist of accelerometer data generated from 30 users performing six different activities while wearing a Samsung smartphone on their person. The files containing the data are "features.txt", "subject_test.txt", "subject_train.txt", "X_test.txt", "X_train.txt", "y_test.txt", and "y_train.txt". These files must be housed in the same working directory as the R script in order for the script to function properly. The R script produces a file called "tidydata.txt", which is a tidy data set containing summary information about all measures in the data set pertaining to a mean or standard deviation of a recorded variable. Comments describing specific R functions are given within the R script itself.  


2. The file "features.txt" gives text descriptions of each of the variables recorded. The files "subject_train.txt", "X_train.txt",  and "y_train.txt" contain information about the subject (person), accelerometer readings, and activity label for those people in the test portion of the study (70 percent), respectively. The files "subject_test.txt", "X_test.txt",  and "y_test.txt" contain information about the subject (person), accelerometer readings, and activity label for those people in the test portion of the study (30 percent), respectively. The tidy data set gives a wide format version of the mean readings for each variable of interest for each person and each activity. 


